---
layout: post
title: "[CVE-2023-30191] Improper neutralization of SQL parameter in Prestaeg - CDesigner module for PrestaShop"
categories: modules
author:
- TouchWeb.fr
- 202 Ecommerce
- Friends-Of-Presta.org
meta: "CVE,PrestaShop,cdesigner"
severity: "critical (9.8)"
---

In the module "CDesigner" (cdesigner) from Prestaeg for PrestaShop, a guest can perform SQL injection in affected versions.


## Summary

* **CVE ID**: [CVE-2023-30191](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2023-30191)
* **Published at**: 2023-05-17
* **Platform**: PrestaShop
* **Product**: cdesigner
* **Impacted release**: <= 3.2.2 (3.2.3 fixed the vulnerability - WARNING : NO SEMVER VERSIONNING - SEE NOTE BELOW)
* **Product author**: Prestaeg
* **Weakness**: [CWE-89](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/89.html)
* **Severity**: critical (9.8)

## Description

The method `CdesignerTraitementModuleFrontController::initContent()` has sensitive SQL calls that can be executed with a trivial http call and exploited to forge a SQL injection.

Note : The author do not follow a conventionnal semver versionning, since each branch of each PS major version follow its own version's logic. For one Prestashop major version, vulnerability has been fixed since months but for others PS major version it's still vulnerable.

This will cause confusion for the ecosystem so we defined the "impacted release" as a "safe version" for "all major PS versions".

**WARNING** : This exploit is actively used to deploy webskimmer to massively steal credit cards. 

This exploit uses a PrestaShop front controller and most attackers can conceal the module controller's path during the exploit so you will never know within your conventional frontend logs that it exploits this vulnerability. **You will only see "POST /" inside your conventional frontend logs.** Activating AuditEngine of mod_security (or similar) is the only way to get data to confirm this exploit.

## CVSS base metrics

* **Attack vector**: network
* **Attack complexity**: low
* **Privilege required**: none
* **User interaction**: none
* **Scope**: unchanged
* **Confidentiality**: high
* **Integrity**: high
* **Availability**: high

**Vector string**: [CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator?vector=AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H)

## Possible malicious usage

* Obtain admin access
* Steal/Remove data on the associated PrestaShop
* Copy/paste data from sensitive tables to FRONT to exposed tokens and unlock admins's ajax scripts
* Rewrite SMTP settings to hijacked emails


## Proof of concept


```bash
curl -v -X POST -d 'state=8&id_input=1&id_output=1&id_design=1%27;select(sleep(10));' 'https://preprod.XXX/?fc=module&module=cdesigner&controller=traitement'
```

## Patch from 3.1.8

```diff
--- 3.1.8/cdesigner/controllers/front/traitement.php
+++ 3.2.3/cdesigner/controllers/front/traitement.php
...
                else if ($state == 8)
		{
-                       $id_design = $_POST['id_design'];
+                       $id_design = pSQL($_POST['id_design']);
			Db::getInstance(_PS_USE_SQL_SLAVE_)->executeS("
				DELETE FROM "._DB_PREFIX_."cdesigner_user_design
				WHERE `id_design` = '". $id_design ."'"

```

## Other recommandations

* It’s recommended to upgrade to the latest version of the module **cdesigner**.
* Upgrade PrestaShop to the latest version to disable multiquery executions (separated by “;”)
* Change the default database prefix `ps_` by a new longer arbitrary prefix. Nevertheless, be warned that this is useless against blackhat with DBA senior skill because of a design vulnerability in DBMS
* Activate OWASP 942's rules on your WAF (Web application firewall), be warned that you will probably break your backoffice and you will need to pre-configure some bypasses against these set of rules.

## Timeline

| Date | Action |
|--|--|
| Q3 2022 | Issue discovered after security audit by [TouchWeb.fr](https://www.touchweb.fr) |
| Q4 2022 | Contact author |
| Q4 2022 | Author provide a patch |
| 2023-03-04 | Contact PrestaShop Addons security Team to confirm versions scope by author |
| 2023-03-25 | Request a CVE ID |
| 2023-04-24 | Received CVE ID |
| 2023-05-16 | Prestashop Addons security Team confirm author publish a fix |
| 2023-05-17 | Publish this security advisory |

## Links

* [PrestaShop addons product page](https://addons.prestashop.com/fr/declinaisons-personnalisation/22677-personnalisation-de-produit-product-customize.html)
* [National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2023-30191)
